  Example of using curl to post a file

curl -F file=@test.txt http://<fqdn>/minecraft

Welcome to hipflask's documentation!
************************************

Hipflask is a set of functionality built around the Python Flask
(WSGI) Microframework.  The idea is that it provides all sorts of
common functionality so that someone developing on top of this can
focus on just the programming necessary to solve the problem at hand,
instead of time trying to get servers to start, stop, etc.


Definitions
***********

* Local Event - Events that are emitted into the log file structure of
  the running application, further detail is in the 'Events' section.

* Configuration - Configuration of the system is accomplished by
  setting environment variables and is outlined in the 'Configuration'
  section.

* Handler - Corresponds to a 'view function' in flask.  Within
  hipflask specifically a handler is a function mapped to a particular
  route.  As a (theoretical) convenience, hipflask provides a
  directory in which it will look for handlers that you may provide.
  Hipflask looks for handler files in the handlers/ directory and will
  load anything but __init__.py matching *.py.  In practice multiple
  handlers will occur in a single file, and they will look something
  like this:

   @app.route("/respond_to")
   def say_hi():
     return "hi"

* Another thing - something


Controlling Hipflask
********************

The primary interface for interaction with Hipflask is make.  As such
all of the following are invoked as 'make <cmd>' where <cmd> is one of
the below:

* debug - Starts the application using the standard Flask debug
  server.

* build - Builds Hipflask as needed, primarily this is the setup of a
  virtual environment and the installation of the proper python
  packages.

* start - Starts the application in 'production' mode.  This simply
  starts the app using gunicorn.

* test  - Runs the unit tests (see testing for more information).

* clean - Cleans up var/ and tmp/ directories as well as deleting the
  virtual environment.  You'll want to ( make clean ; make test ) to
  make sure everything has the highest likelihood of working.

* docs  - Uses sphinx to build the documentation for hipflask.  See
  'Documenting Hipflask'

In the non development case of using hipflask it may be the case that
mutliple instances of Hipflask are needed to run concurrently, to
assist in this and avoid redundant environment setup a script 'start'
is provided.  The sole purpose is to synchronize the build stage so
multiple instances don't try to setup the (virtual) environment
simultaneously.


Documenting Hipflask
********************


Testing
*******

Talk about unit tests


Extending Hipflask
******************

Talk about package installation and the freeze file


Adding Handlers
===============

The common way to extend the functionality of Hipflask is adding
handlere.  Hipflask provides a set of (seemingly) useful out-of-the-
box handlers.

Hipflask creates an application instance which it will manage, this
application is shared with all the handlers including the out-of-the-
box handlers.  Creating handlers involves defining handlers and
attaching them to the Hipflask application, this is done like:

   from pyserver.core import app

   @app.route("/hello", methods=["GET"])
   def howdy():
     return "World!"

from pyserver.core import app - this provides access to the Hipflask
application object to which all handlers will be attached.  The rest
of the example is simply the definition of the handler.


Configuration
*************

Configuration of the system is managed by setting environment
variables. The following list specifies the behavior of the common
settings.

SQLITE_VFS = Used to set the VFS used during SQLite connections.  Can
be any of the valid VFS choices unix-dotfile (default for
portability), unix-excl, unix-none, unix-namedsem or the SQLite
default 'unix'

PORT = Sets the port on which the WSGI server will listen, affects
both standard and debug environments. (make start, make debug)

LOG_LEVEL = Valid values are those from the python logging module
(DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, etc.), note that these map to the constants in
the logging module so case matters.

LOCAL_EVENT_SOURCES = A comma delimited list of sources for which
Local Events will be emitted, see Events section for more info.


Events
******

The system support the raising of events providing data about various
actions that have taken place.  Currently the only events emitted are
'Local Events'.  Local Events are events that are emitted into the
output stream of the running application.  In a normal production
environment these events will end up in a log file and are available
for consumption from there.


Handler Decorators
******************

It's possible to change the way output from a handler is interpereted.
This is managed by applying decorators to a handler.  Available
decorators are:

@cache_my_response
   Is used to ensure that responses from the decorated function will
   be cached by the application.  The default application cache is
   filesystem backed.  The location of the cached data stored is
   controled by the environment variable CACHE_ROOT.  In the case of
   multiple servers wanting to share cached data, they can be
   configured to share the filesystem location referenced by
   CACHE_ROOT.

   When serving a cached response an Expires header will be added to
   the response indicating the expiration time of the cached item.

   <vary_by=None> - an optional list of request parameters the values
   of which  will control the variance in the cache.  This is to say
   the values of these parameters will be used to define the cache key
   used to cache the response.

   <expiration_seconds=900> - The number of seconds for which the
   cached response will be considered valid.  This doesn't affect any
   cache headers in the response this is purely for controling the
   lifetime of the cached value within the application.

@make_my_response_json
   Causes the response from the view to be formatted as json.  The
   Content-Type in the response will be set to application/json, and
   support for a callback parameter in the request will be made
   available (JSONP).

   In the case that the inbound request has a callback parameter, any
   status code of 404 will be converted to a 200.  This is to ease
   handling of not found conditions by the browser, which in the case
   of encountering a 404 in a 'JSONP request' can lead to undesireable
   behavior.  The rest of the response will be unchanged.


Endpoints
*********

GET /diagnostic/echo

   Helper endpoint for developing diagnostic checks.  Simply echoes
   back  any values provided in the inbound request.

   Parameters:
      * **'*'** -- any inbound request parameters will be echoed back

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- always returns OK

GET /diagnostic/fail

   This endpoint is designed to show how the application fails.  Can
   be used to assist in creating monitors to check the application
   health and respond to failures.

   Status Codes:
      * **500** -- always returns failure

POST /message/local_publish

   Allows for publishing of a local message.

GET /diagnostic

   Used to return the status of the application, including the version
   of the running application.

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- returned as long as all checks return healthy

      * **500** -- returned in the case of any diagnostic tests
        failing

GET /hello

GET /echo

POST /echo

GET /

   Used to return the status of the application, including the version
   of the running application.

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- returned as long as all checks return healthy

      * **500** -- returned in the case of any diagnostic tests
        failing

POST /store/(store_name)/(int: id)

   Updates the item identified by <id>, in store named <store_name>.
   As a convenience, if the item specified by id DOES NOT already
   exist it will be added.

GET /store/(store_name)/(int: id)

   Returns the data stored in the list 'store_name' with the provided
   id, or an empty JSON object '{}' if an item with the associated id
   doesn't exist.

   Example:

   curl http://store.example.com:5000/store/my_test_list/1

   returns: { "id": 1, "number": 1, "name": "pants" }

   curl http://store.example.com:5000/store/my_test_list/1?callback=cb

   returns: cb({ "id": 1, "name": "pants", "number": 1 });

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- item exists, and was returned

      * **200** -- item does NOT exist, but request included a
        'callback' parameter

      * **404** -- no item by the provided id was found, no callback
        provided

DELETE /store/(store_name)/(int: id)

GET /template/(path: template_path)

   Returns the unrendered contents of a template

GET /render/(path: template_path)

   Given a request that contains data as either a json object, or in
   the body of the request, render the template requested.

   Currently supports templates with

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- successful rendering of the requested template

      * **404** -- requested template doesn't exist

POST /render/(path: template_path)

   Given a request that contains data as either a json object, or in
   the body of the request, render the template requested.

   Currently supports templates with

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- successful rendering of the requested template

      * **404** -- requested template doesn't exist

POST /store/(store_name)

   Save the data provided within the named store. Each POST to this
   endpoint  referring to the same 'store_name' will append data a
   list referred to by  'store_name'.

   Data can be provided in one of two ways:

   JSON - if the mimetype of the request isapplication/json and the
   body contains valid json, the json object will be appended.

   Request Data - any data provided in the querystring or the body of
   the requrest as form data will be stored.  Any numeric data will be
   stored in such a way as to maintain its type.

   curl http://store.example.com:5000/store/my_test_list --data
   "number=1" --data "name=pants"

   will return data such as

   { "id": 1, "number": 1, "name": "pants" }

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- successsfully stored the data provided

      * **5xx** -- an error occurred while trying to store the
        provided data

GET /store/(store_name)

   curl http://store.example.com:5000/store/my_test_list [

      {
         "id": 1,  "number": 1,  "name": "pants"

      }

   ]

POST /kv/(key)

   Store all of the data provided in the body of the request,
   associated with the specified key.  The data stored includes the
   content type information of the request so on fetch the content
   type will be set as it was when the data was stored.

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- provided data has been successfully stored by the
        given key

GET /kv/(key)

   For a given key return the data stored, if any.

   Status Codes:
      * **200** -- data found, and returned

      * **404** -- no stored data found for provided key

DELETE /kv/(key)

   Removes all stored data for a given key.

POST /fs/(path: path_to_file)

GET /fs/(path: path_to_file)

DELETE /fs/(path: path_to_file)
